hey everyone today I want to introduce
the basics of CMOS design so what is
CMOS CMOS actually stands for
complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor
ancestor which just will denote by this
and we'll get an n-type transistor
actually let me go ahead and write
p-type and then we'll get our n-type and
type II so p-type the way that I always
remember it is P as a circle and that
has a circle and p-type are usually
going to be connected to a positive half
of the arm of our circuit which I'll
explain a little bit more of that later
so I'm just going to go ahead and write
this up here so VCC and then this will
be down here to n Moss and then this one
is usually going to be the n-type is
going to be on the lower half of the
CMOS design and we'll say that this is
going to be going up to a P Moss and
it'll be usually connected to ground and
then this right here I'll call the gate
on both of them the gate is going to
tell us whether this um transistor is
going to be on or off in other words
whether it's going to let a signal go
from here down to here or from here up
to here well really it's just letting
the signals pass between this wire you
can think of it almost as a wire between
and this is just a switch so for p-type
p-type is going to be on when gate is
set to zero in other words when we put a
zero for the input this thing will be
it'll let a signal pass otherwise if
it's a 1 nothing will pass um
so the circuit is open so in an n-type
transistor the opposite is true so G is
going to equal to 1 for it to pass a
signal so let's let's do some basic
designs and I'll start with the most um
simplified form of a or the simple most
simple transistor that we can get so and
that is the not gate we already know
that not is like if we have a and then I
have an output then 0 goes to 1 and 1
goes to 0 simple enough so how do we
design our CMOS logic well I'm going to
show you guys a little trick we only
ever on the the C part of this that I
was talking about before means that we
only actually have to look at half of
the circuit or derive half of the
circuit the other half just comes as a
byproduct so in this case I want to
design the negative half so let's let's
see what a is so Y here is equal to not
a ok so let's just look at this knot and
um see the parts here so I'm going to
circle everything that has a zero in it
and then I'm going to write it connect
that to ground so and we'll do that with
our I'll you guessed it the end Moss
transistor and then I'm going to go
ahead up here and create a PMO's
transistor since there's really nothing
else that we can do to make this circuit
like more complicated let's just connect
the inputs so here's our a and then this
will be VCC and this will be Y now if
you follow this circuit if a is 1 this
circuit is on so ground comes it pulls
it up from ground in other words Y
becomes 0 y equals 0 if a equals to 1
likewise if I here let me change color
real fast if a equals to 0 then this is
pulled down from VCC so y equals to 1
simple enough okay so let's go on to our
next gate let's do a NAND gate there let
me change back my colors so I'm going to
do a NAND gate and this will be a lot
it'll be a lot clearer for showing the
complementary part in this over over
here we notice that we just have 1 and
moss to 1p moss well we're always going
it for each N moss we're always going to
have 1p moss and the complementary part
basically says if we solve for this half
then this half up here is just going to
be the complement of it of whatever is
down here so what is nand and of course
if we have our a B and then output Y
actually let me go ahead and instead of
writing Y here I'm going to go ahead and
write a B not and so it'll be the NAND
so we got 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 okay so for
NAND gate it's basically not and so we
get a 0 1 1 and 1 so like before let's
go ahead and circle our zeroes I'm just
going to do it in a highlight this time
so we've got our 0 there and how can we
get on this output of 0 well if n Moss
is what's connected to our ground then
let's just link these two things
together serially so that's what we'll
do I'll have one transistor second
transistor and then ground so this will
be our it doesn't really matter what
order I'll just put a B there
I'll put an A here and then we'll go up
to something
this will be our N Moss circuit up here
and of course we'll have our output a
Barbie but what goes up here well it's
just going to be the complement of
whatever's down here since these two
things are in serial what's up here
should be in parallel so it'll look
something like this let me my sorry for
one sec my tablet is being a little bit
weird
I'll put a B there and then this one is
going to be a and then they just get
both connected to VCC so now let's let's
go ahead and verify what we did so if a
and B are both 1 this will be true so we
get a path to ground pulling up I'm
going to change colors um erased it no
no no no don't delete that okay
there we go saved it so if a and B are
both equal to 1 then we have a path up
from ground otherwise if a is um if a is
0 or B is 0 we get a path down from VCC
so if a equals 0 or B equals 0 then VCC
otherwise if a and B then 0 and that's
basically the logic that we've set over
here we notice that if we get any sort
of 0 then the output is going to be a 1
okay so let's do one more final basic
gate and that is our nor gate so nor of
course we have a B and then a or B not 4
nor 0 0 or sorry 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 and
then what is the nor anything that is
going to have a 1 here is going to be a
0 so 0 0 0 and then 1 it's the opposite
of nor so let's go ahead and create this
circuit really fast notice how over here
all of these things are 0 the same sort
of thing on reason that all of these
things up here are 1 so we can we can
actually derive the circuit in two ways
we could do what we were doing before
and say let's do the zero half of it or
since I'm lazy I could just look at this
part and that's what I'm going to do so
since we want on two things that it's
inputs are zero and we get an output of
one well we can just use our P Moss so
let's do that we've got our VCC one two
just doing them in serial so a and B all
technically it's going to be a not and
be not and again order of these two
transistors doesn't really matter a B
and then now we have our A or B naught
and we just need to solve for the n Moss
on spot well since these two things are
in serial whatever is down here should
be in parallel for its group so we've
got I'm just going to go ahead and draw
a line like that to make it easier oh I
shouldn't have done it that way don't
and done here we go so be B and then a
man my tablet is not working today
sorry about that so now we can just go
ahead and verify again if we get a
single input as a 1 then this is going
to be pulled up from ground otherwise
umm if we get both inputs as a 0 as a 0
will get pulled down from VCC and that's
really all there is to it
every time the point of CMOS design is
that complimentary that is the biggest
part of CMOS the C equals complimentary
I probably misspelled that ignore it um
yeah it should be an e shouldn't it
complimentary oh it doesn't really
matter anyways the complementary means
that whatever's down here its complement
will be up here and whatever is up here
its complement will be down here so um
it should always like when you check
your circuits and you want to make sure
that it's actually a CMOS design you
really only have to check half of it um
like when your transfer
coming from the truth table over to the
circuit to the circuit to the truth
table you just do half then the other
half should just follow so in this case
I solve for one I could solve for one
because it's easier and then everything
else is just going to be zeros okay
that's really all I wanted to cover for
today um I will post another video with
some more examples soon